Obtain Coretime Tutorial (#250)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: tutorials/polkadot-sdk/parachains/obtain-coretime.md

---
title: Obtain Coretime
description: This guide shows you how to obtain coretime for block production using on-demand or bulk options.
---

## Introduction

> Coretime is the mechanism in which validation resources are allocated from the relay chain to the respective [task](../../../polkadot-protocol/glossary.md#task), such as a parachain. A parachain could only produce blocks and finalize them on the relay chain by obtaining coretime.

Reviewer: will remove that references directly, we can add it once we add taks def to the glosary

There are two ways to obtain coretime:

- **Bulk coretime** - Bulk coretime allows you to obtain a core or part of a core. It is purchased for some time, up to 28 days. It must be renewed once the lease finishes
- **On-Demand coretime** - On-demand coretime allows you to buy coretime on a block-by-block basis

In this tutorial, you will:

- Learn about the different coretime interfaces available
- Learn how to purchase a core via bulk coretime
- Assign a task / parachain to the core for block production
- Alternatively, use on-demand coretime to produce blocks as required

## Prerequisites 

Before proceeding, you should have the following items:

- A parachain ID
- A chain specification
- A registered parathread with the correct genesis, runtime, and parachain ID that matches the chain specification
- A properly configured and synced (with the relay chain) collator

!!!note

>     You may only consider these prerequisites if you wish to purchase a core with a parachain.

Reviewer 2: This sounds kind of off

Reviewer: agree, let's remove it

> Once the above is complete, obtaining coretime is the last step to enable your parachain to start producing and finalizing blocks using the relay chain's validator set. If you don't, refer to the previous tutorial: [Deploy on Paseo TestNet](todo).

Reviewer: agree, the link will be `/tutorials/polkadot-sdk/parachains/zero-to-hero/deploy-to-testnet/` as showed in #254 

Added in [a6fdc54](https://github.com/polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs/pull/250/commits/a6fdc5400e53283d906376b3fa169971ee16c9c1)

## Purchasing Bulk Coretime

> Purchasing bulk coretime involves purchasing a core from the [Coretime Chain](/polkadot-protocol/architecture/system-chains/coretime/){target=\_blank}, which has an instance of [`pallet_broker`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/index.html){target=\blank} (the Broker pallet). Although this can be done via sending extrinsics through a tool like Polkadot.js Apps, there are user interfaces for purchasing and managing bulk coretime:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Purchasing bulk coretime involves purchasing a core from the [Coretime Chain](/polkadot-protocol/architecture/system-chains/coretime/){target=\_blank}, which has an instance of [`pallet_broker`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/index.html){target=\_blank} (the Broker pallet). Although this can be done via sending extrinsics through a tool like Polkadot.js Apps, there are user interfaces for purchasing and managing bulk coretime:
```

> - [RegionX Coretime Marketplace (includes Paseo support)](https://app.regionx.tech){target=\blank}
> - [Lastic Coretime Marketplace](https://www.lastic.xyz/polkadot/bulkcore1){target=\blank}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- [RegionX Coretime Marketplace (includes Paseo support)](https://app.regionx.tech){target=\_blank}
- [Lastic Coretime Marketplace](https://www.lastic.xyz/polkadot/bulkcore1){target=\_blank}
```

> !!!info Obtaining a Core on Paseo

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
!!!info "Obtaining a Core on Paseo"
```

> !!!info Obtaining a Core on Paseo
>  Obtaining a core for bulk coretime on Paseo follows a different process from Polkadot or Kusama. To apply for a core on Paseo, visit their guide for doing so: [PAS-10 Onboard Paras Coretime](https://github.com/paseo-network/paseo-action-submission/blob/main/pas/PAS-10-Onboard-paras-coretime.md#summary){target=\blank} 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
!!!info Obtaining a Core on Paseo
    Obtaining a core for bulk coretime on Paseo follows a different process from Polkadot or Kusama. To apply for a core on Paseo, visit their guide for doing so: [PAS-10 Onboard Paras Coretime](https://github.com/paseo-network/paseo-action-submission/blob/main/pas/PAS-10-Onboard-paras-coretime.md#summary){target=\blank} 
```

Reviewer: fixed manually in [1557318](https://github.com/polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs/pull/250/commits/1557318a8f31ebc90d420b82389e136a915cef1a)

### Getting Coretime Funds

> First, ensure your wallet is connected to the RegionX interface. To do so, go to Home in the RegionX app and click the Connect Wallet button in the upper right.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, ensure your wallet is connected to the [RegionX](https://app.regionx.tech){target=\_blank} interface. To do so, go to **Home** in the RegionX app and click the **Connect Wallet** button in the upper right.
```

> After connecting your wallet, you must obtain funds on the Coretime Chain. You can use the [RegionX Transfer](https://app.regionx.tech/transfer){target=\blank} page to perform a cross-chain transfer from the relay to the system chain:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After connecting your wallet, you must obtain funds on the Coretime chain. You can use the [RegionX Transfer](https://app.regionx.tech/transfer){target=\_blank} page to perform a cross-chain transfer from the relay to the system chain.
```

Reviewer 2: For accessibility purposes, you shouldn't lead into images with colons. Especially when they're not using alt text

![](/images/tutorials/polkadot-sdk/parachains/obtain-coretime/obtain-coretime-1.webp)

!!!info 
    If you are purchasing a core on a TestNet, be sure to visit the [Polkadot Faucet](https://faucet.polkadot.io/westend){target=\_blank}.

> If successful, you should see the balance in the upper right of the **Transfer** page update with balances on the relay and Coretime chain, respectively: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If successful, you should see the balance in the upper right of the **Transfer** page update with balances on the relay and Coretime chain, respectively.
```

![](/images/tutorials/polkadot-sdk/parachains/obtain-coretime/obtain-coretime-2.webp)

### Purchasing a Core

> For this tutorial, we will use [RegionX](https://app.regionx.tech){target=\_blank}. Once you open the app, you should be presented with the following screen:

Reviewer 2: It seems strange to me to state this at this point

Reviewer: afaik, it's okay to keep it like this, since we need to first purchase core time and then send the extrinsic. However, we can figure this out once we have everything ready in #254

> ![](/images/tutorials/polkadot-sdk/parachains/obtain-coretime/obtain-coretime-3.webp)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
![Screenshot of the RegionX app displaying the main interface.](/images/tutorials/polkadot-sdk/parachains/obtain-coretime/obtain-coretime-3.webp)
```

In this case since there aren't steps above it that can summarize what is in the image, lets add alt text

On the top left is a network switch. Ensure you have selected your parachain and that it is registered before purchasing a core.

> To purchase a core, go to the menu on the left and select the **Purchase A Core** item under **Primary Market**. Here, you should see the cores available for purchase, details regarding the sale period, and its current phase. Alternatively, you may use this link to visit it: [**Primary Market > Purchase A Core**](https://app.regionx.tech/purchase){target=\_blank}:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To purchase a core, go to the menu on the left and select the **Purchase A Core** item under **Primary Market**. Here, you should see the cores available for purchase, details regarding the sale period, and its current phase. Alternatively, you may use this link to visit it: [**Primary Market > Purchase A Core**](https://app.regionx.tech/purchase){target=\_blank}.
```

![](/images/tutorials/polkadot-sdk/parachains/obtain-coretime/obtain-coretime-4.webp)

> At the bottom of the page, select the **Purchase a Core** button on the bottom right, where a modal detailing the fees will appear. Click **Ok** and sign the transaction using the wallet of your choice:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At the bottom-right corner of the page, select the **Purchase a Core** button. A modal detailing the fees will appear. Review the details, then click **Ok** and sign the transaction using the wallet of your choice.
```

![](/images/tutorials/polkadot-sdk/parachains/obtain-coretime/obtain-coretime-5.webp)

> Once the transaction is confirmed, click [**My Regions**](https://app.regionx.tech/regions){target=\_blank} on the left-hand menu, and you will see your purchased core:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the transaction is confirmed, click [**My Regions**](https://app.regionx.tech/regions){target=\_blank} on the left-hand menu, and you will see your purchased core.
```

![](/images/tutorials/polkadot-sdk/parachains/obtain-coretime/obtain-coretime-6.webp)

Congratulations, you just purchased a core using RegionX! You can assign the core to your parachain, partition, interlace, and more using RegionX.

### Assigning a Core

> Once you have the core as shown in the dashboard, select it by clicking on it, then click the **Assign** option on the left-hand side. You will be presented with a modal in which you can add a new task:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you have the core as shown in the dashboard, select it by clicking on it, then click the **Assign** option on the left-hand side. You will be presented with a modal in which you can add a new task.
```

![](/images/tutorials/polkadot-sdk/parachains/obtain-coretime/obtain-coretime-7.webp)

> Click the **Add Task** button and input the parachain identifier, along with the name of your project, and finalize it by clicking **Add Task**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click the **Add Task** button and input the parachain identifier, along with the name of your project, and finalize it by clicking **Add Task**.
```

![](/images/tutorials/polkadot-sdk/parachains/obtain-coretime/obtain-coretime-8.webp)

You may now select a task from the list. You must also set the core's finality, which determines whether you can renew this specific core. Provisional finality allows for interlacing and partitioning, whereas Final finality does not allow the region to be modified. A core must not be interlaced or partitioned to be renewable, so Finality should be selected if you want to renew this specific core.

Once you sign and send this transaction, that task/parachain will be assigned to that core.

## Ordering On Demand Coretime

> Navigate to [Developer > Extrinsics](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/extrinsics){target=\blank} on the relay chain and issue`onDemand.placeOrderAllowDeath` extrinsic from the account that registered the
> `ParaID` by specifying sufficient `maxAmount`for the transaction to go through successfully.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On Polkadot.js Apps, make sure you're connected to the relay chain, then navigate to [**Developer > Extrinsics**](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/extrinsics){target=\_blank} and issue the `onDemand.placeOrderAllowDeath` extrinsic from the account that registered the `ParaID` by specifying sufficient `maxAmount` for the transaction to go through successfully.
```

![](/images/tutorials/polkadot-sdk/parachains/obtain-coretime/obtain-coretime-9.webp)

!!!info
    There are two extrinsics which allow you to place orders for on-demand coretime:

>     - [`onDemand.placeOrderAllowDeath`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/polkadot_runtime_parachains/on_demand/pallet/dispatchables/fn.place_order_allow_death.html){target=\_blank} - will [reap](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-accounts#existential-deposit-and-reaping){target=\blank} the account once the provided funds run out.
>     - [`onDemand.placeOrderKeepAlive`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/polkadot_runtime_parachains/on_demand/pallet/dispatchables/fn.place_order_keep_alive.html){target=\_blank} - includes a check which will **not** reap the account if the provided funds will run out, ensuring the account is kept alive.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - [**`onDemand.placeOrderAllowDeath`**](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/polkadot_runtime_parachains/on_demand/pallet/dispatchables/fn.place_order_allow_death.html){target=\_blank} - will [reap](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-accounts#existential-deposit-and-reaping){target=\_blank} the account once the provided funds run out
    - [**`onDemand.placeOrderKeepAlive`**](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/polkadot_runtime_parachains/on_demand/pallet/dispatchables/fn.place_order_keep_alive.html){target=\_blank} - includes a check which will **not** reap the account if the provided funds will run out, ensuring the account is kept alive
```

> With each successful on-demand extrinsic, the parachain head changes (you may have to zoom out on the browser for parachain head details to show up on the Polkadot.Js Apps interface).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With each successful on-demand extrinsic, the parachain head changes (you may have to zoom out on the browser for parachain head details to show up on the Polkadot.js Apps interface).
```

---
title: Obtain Coretime
description: This guide shows you how to obtain coretime for block production using on-demand or bulk options.
---

## Introduction

Coretime is the mechanism in which validation resources are allocated from the relay chain to the respective [task](../../../polkadot-protocol/glossary.md#task), such as a parachain. A parachain could only produce blocks and finalize them on the relay chain by obtaining coretime.

There are two ways to obtain coretime:

- **Bulk coretime** - Bulk coretime allows you to obtain a core or part of a core. It is purchased for some time, up to 28 days. It must be renewed once the lease finishes
- **On-Demand coretime** - On-demand coretime allows you to buy coretime on a block-by-block basis

In this tutorial, you will:

- Learn about the different coretime interfaces available
- Learn how to purchase a core via bulk coretime
- Assign a task / parachain to the core for block production
- Alternatively, use on-demand coretime to produce blocks as required

## Prerequisites 

Before proceeding, you should have the following items:

> !!!note
>  You may disregard these prerequisites if you only wish to purchase a core without a parachain.
> 
> - A parachain ID
> - A chain specification
> - A registered parathread with the correct genesis, runtime, and parachain ID that matches the chain specification
> - A properly configured and synced (with the relay chain) collator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A parachain ID
- A chain specification
- A registered parathread with the correct genesis, runtime, and parachain ID that matches the chain specification
- A properly configured and synced (with the relay chain) collator

!!!note
    You may only consider these prerequisites if you wish to purchase a core with a parachain.
```

Once the above is complete, obtaining coretime is the last step to enable your parachain to start producing and finalizing blocks using the relay chain's validator set. If you don't, refer to the previous tutorial: [Deploy on Paseo TestNet](todo).

## Purchasing Bulk Coretime

> Purchasing bulk coretime involves purchasing a core from the [Coretime Chain](../../../polkadot-protocol/architecture/system-chains/coretime.md), which has an instance of [`pallet_broker`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/index.html){target=\blank} (the Broker pallet). Although this can be done via sending extrinsics through a tool like Polkadot.js Apps, there are user interfaces for purchasing and managing bulk coretime:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Purchasing bulk coretime involves purchasing a core from the [Coretime Chain](/polkadot-protocol/architecture/system-chains/coretime/){target=\_blank}, which has an instance of [`pallet_broker`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_broker/index.html){target=\blank} (the Broker pallet). Although this can be done via sending extrinsics through a tool like Polkadot.js Apps, there are user interfaces for purchasing and managing bulk coretime:
```

- [RegionX Coretime Marketplace (includes Paseo support)](https://app.regionx.tech){target=\blank}
- [Lastic Coretime Marketplace](https://www.lastic.xyz/polkadot/bulkcore1){target=\blank}
  
!!!info Obtaining a Core on Paseo
 Obtaining a core for bulk coretime on Paseo follows a different process from Polkadot or Kusama. To apply for a core on Paseo, visit their guide for doing so: [PAS-10 Onboard Paras Coretime](https://github.com/paseo-network/paseo-action-submission/blob/main/pas/PAS-10-Onboard-paras-coretime.md#summary){target=\blank} 

### Getting Coretime Funds

First, ensure your wallet is connected to the RegionX interface. To do so, go to Home in the RegionX app and click the Connect Wallet button in the upper right.

After connecting your wallet, you must obtain funds on the Coretime Chain. You can use the [RegionX Transfer](https://app.regionx.tech/transfer){target=\blank} page to perform a cross-chain transfer from the relay to the system chain:

![](/images/tutorials/polkadot-sdk/parachains/obtain-coretime/obtain-coretime-1.webp)

> !!!info 
>  If you are purchasing a core on a TestNet, be sure to visit the [Polkadot Faucet](https://faucet.polkadot.io/westend){target=\blank}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
!!!info 
    If you are purchasing a core on a TestNet, be sure to visit the [Polkadot Faucet](https://faucet.polkadot.io/westend){target=\_blank}.
```

If successful, you should see the balance in the upper right of the **Transfer** page update with balances on the relay and Coretime chain, respectively: 

![](/images/tutorials/polkadot-sdk/parachains/obtain-coretime/obtain-coretime-2.webp)

### Purchasing a Core

> For this tutorial, we will use [RegionX](https://app.regionx.tech){target=\blank}. Once you open the app, you should be presented with the following screen:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this tutorial, we will use [RegionX](https://app.regionx.tech){target=\_blank}. Once you open the app, you should be presented with the following screen:
```

![](/images/tutorials/polkadot-sdk/parachains/obtain-coretime/obtain-coretime-3.webp)

On the top left is a network switch. Ensure you have selected your parachain and that it is registered before purchasing a core.

> To purchase a core, go to the menu on the left and select the **Purchase A Core** item under **Primary Market**. Here, you should see the cores available for purchase, details regarding the sale period, and its current phase. Alternatively, you may use this link to visit it: [**Primary Market > Purchase A Core**](https://app.regionx.tech/purchase){target=\blank}:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To purchase a core, go to the menu on the left and select the **Purchase A Core** item under **Primary Market**. Here, you should see the cores available for purchase, details regarding the sale period, and its current phase. Alternatively, you may use this link to visit it: [**Primary Market > Purchase A Core**](https://app.regionx.tech/purchase){target=\_blank}:
```

![](/images/tutorials/polkadot-sdk/parachains/obtain-coretime/obtain-coretime-4.webp)

At the bottom of the page, select the **Purchase a Core** button on the bottom right, where a modal detailing the fees will appear. Click **Ok** and sign the transaction using the wallet of your choice:

![](/images/tutorials/polkadot-sdk/parachains/obtain-coretime/obtain-coretime-5.webp)

> Once the transaction is confirmed, click [**My Regions**](https://app.regionx.tech/regions){target=\blank} on the left-hand menu, and you will see your purchased core:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the transaction is confirmed, click [**My Regions**](https://app.regionx.tech/regions){target=\_blank} on the left-hand menu, and you will see your purchased core:
```

![](/images/tutorials/polkadot-sdk/parachains/obtain-coretime/obtain-coretime-8.webp)

You may now select a task from the list. You must also set the core's finality, which determines whether you can renew this specific core. Provisional finality allows for interlacing and partitioning, whereas Final finality does not allow the region to be modified. A core must not be interlaced or partitioned to be renewable, so Finality should be selected if you want to renew this specific core.

Once you sign and send this transaction, that task/parachain will be assigned to that core.

## Ordering On Demand Coretime

Navigate to [Developer > Extrinsics](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/#/extrinsics){target=\blank} on the relay chain and issue`onDemandAssignmentProvider.placeOrderAllowDeath` extrinsic from the account that registered the
`ParaID` by specifying sufficient `maxAmount`for the transaction to go through successfully.

![](/images/tutorials/polkadot-sdk/parachains/obtain-coretime/obtain-coretime-9.webp)

!!!info
 There are two extrinsics which allow you to place orders for on-demand coretime:

>  - `onDemandAssignmentProvider.placeOrderAllowDeath` will
>  [reap](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-accounts#existential-deposit-and-reaping){target=\blank} the account once the provided funds
>  run out.
> 
>  - `onDemandAssignmentProvider.placeOrderKeepAlive` includes a check which will **not** reap the
>  account if the provided funds will run out, ensuring the account is kept alive.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 - [`onDemandAssignmentProvider.placeOrderAllowDeath`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/polkadot_runtime_parachains/on_demand/pallet/dispatchables/fn.place_order_allow_death.html){target=\_blank} - will [reap](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-accounts#existential-deposit-and-reaping){target=\blank} the account once the provided funds run out.
 - [`onDemandAssignmentProvider.placeOrderKeepAlive`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/polkadot_runtime_parachains/on_demand/pallet/dispatchables/fn.place_order_keep_alive.html){target=\_blank} - includes a check which will **not** reap the account if the provided funds will run out, ensuring the account is kept alive.
```

> With each successful on-demand extrinsic, the parachain head changes (you may have to zoom out on
> the browser for parachain head details to show up on Polkadot-JS UI).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With each successful on-demand extrinsic, the parachain head changes (you may have to zoom out on the browser for parachain head details to show up on the Polkadot.Js Apps interface).
```
